Create a FIP Editor Handbook for current and intending FIP Editors (#1101)
filecoin-project/FIPs: FIP Editor Handbook/FIPEditorHandBook.md

# FIP Editor Handbook

## README  
This document serves as an extended guide on the roles, responsibilities, and expectations of FIP Editors. It builds upon the foundational description provided in **FIP-0001**, which introduced the FIP process and outlined the role of FIP Editors. While FIP-0001 offered an initial framework, this handbook provides more comprehensive guidance to ensure consistency, accountability, and clarity for FIP Editors and the community they serve.

For detailed information on the FIP process and the foundational principles, refer to **FIP-0001** in the [Filecoin FIP repository](https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs).

---

## Introduction  

> Filecoin Improvement Proposal (FIP) Editors maintain the FIP repository and ensure the editorial completeness of proposals submitted on GitHub. They volunteer their time for the public good, supporting the FIP process by advancing proposals through various stages of their lifecycle. FIP Editors review new proposals, identify formatting and editorial issues, and keep the repository up to date. They leverage their technical expertise to benefit the community by reviewing improvement ideas and providing critical feedback.

Reviewer: I suggest adjusting this to highlight that the technical expertise comes from the community.

```suggestion
Filecoin Improvement Proposal (FIP) Editors maintain the FIP repository and ensure the editorial completeness of proposals submitted on GitHub. They volunteer their time for the public good, supporting the FIP process by advancing proposals through various stages of their lifecycle. FIP Editors review new proposals, identify formatting and editorial issues, and keep the repository up to date. They leverage the technical expertise of the community to facilitate the detailed technical, economic, and product review of improvement ideas. FIP Editors may also function as technical reviewers in addition to their facilitation role.
```

- **Assert Correctness**: While they may offer technical feedback, they do not confirm the technical soundness of proposals.
- **Decide Network Upgrades**: They do not determine which FIPs should be included in network upgrades, even though some FIP Editors may be involved in implementation teams.

---

## Pull Request Review Standards  

For pull requests (PRs) that impact **protocol design/specifications** or include **considerations** affecting the protocol:  

- FIP Editors must ensure **at least two appropriate technical reviews and approvals** have been obtained before considering the PR ready to merge.

For **all other PRs**:

- A minimum of **two technical reviews and approvals** is required before merging.

### Additional Safeguards  

To ensure sufficient review time and prevent rushed decisions:

- FIP Editors should allow a reasonable review period (e.g., 48–72 hours) after obtaining the required two approvals before merging the PR, unless the changes are time-sensitive and have explicit consensus from other editors.
- Editors should use their judgment to balance the urgency of changes with the need for thorough review.

---

## Membership  

> Membership is open to all who wish to apply but is subject to consent by existing FIP Editors. This structure ensures scalable and controlled membership over time. As the process gains stability, existing FIP Editors may decide to make membership more open and less controlled.

Reviewer: This would be a change to how we do it now. Membership is currently _by invitation_ and unanimous agreement (or abstention) of the existing editors.

Candidates should meet the following criteria:

- Commit **0–5 hours weekly** for reviewing FIPs.
- Be proficient in English (both written and spoken).
- Be capable of critiquing proposal concepts.
- Be familiar with the **Filecoin tech stack**.
- Have **participated in FIP discussions** (an added advantage).
- Be interested in participating in governance.

> - Be skilled in using GitHub.

Reviewer: I suggest updating this to be more along the lines of if you would like to be invited to become a FIP editor than you should demonstrate these behaviours.

> Continued inability to meet these requirements may lead to removal from the position. Interested candidates can apply by completing [this form]. Current FIP Editors will review membership requests.

Reviewer 2: Is there a link to the form someone submits?  Are we actually going to make and maintain a form?  Given how low volume this will be, is it better to create a mailing list (e.g., fileditors@filecoin.io) that contacts all the FIP editors and they handle from there?

Reviewer: Not even. I think we can just use Slack for this. This document doesn't need to specify a mechanism. If a candidate editor can't figure out how to contact the other editors, they're probably not a fit.
